Add subscriptions to relationship events to docs (#2467)
neo4j/graphql: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/subscriptions/filtering.adoc

Filtering can only be applied at the root of the Subscription operation.

> NOTE: As aggregations are not supported on subscription types, there is currently no way to apply filter on these fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Aggregations are not supported on subscription types, so there is currently no way to apply filter on these fields.
```

> A Subscription can be created to target the changes to a node (Create/ Update/ Delete) or to a relationship (Create Relationship/ Delete Relationship). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Subscription can be created to target the changes to a node (Create/Update/Delete) or to a relationship (Create/Delete). 
```

=== AND, OR operators

Complex combinations of operators are possible using the `AND`/ `OR` operators. 

> These are stand-alone operators - that is, they are used as such and are not appended to field names. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure this sentence makes such sense, I would maybe just get rid of it.

```suggestion
```

> `AND`/ `OR` operators accept as argument an array of items of the same format as the `where` argument. 

Reviewer: Lots of spaces after forward slashes!

```suggestion
`AND`/`OR` operators accept as argument an array of items of the same format as the `where` argument. 
```

        title
    }
}
----

== Subscribing to relationship events

When subscribing to relationship events, the `where` argument still allows for specifying filters on the top-level properties of the targeted nodes, and also supports specifying filters on the relationship properties (`edge`) and on the top-level properties (`node`) of the nodes at the other end of the relationship. This is done by using the operators described above, and the usage is very similar to the one in xref:subscriptions/filtering.adoc#node-events-usage[Subscribing to node events].

> The relationship-related filtering logic is even more powerful, as filters can also express the expected relationship field, or the expected concrete type at the other end of the relationship when having relationships to Abastract Types. Note that these fields are combined in the resulting filter with a xref:subscriptions/filtering.adoc#filter-logical-or[logical `OR`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relationship-related filtering logic is even more powerful, as filters can also express the expected relationship field, or the expected concrete type at the other end of the relationship when having relationships to Abstract Types. Note that these fields are combined in the resulting filter with a xref:subscriptions/filtering.adoc#filter-logical-or[logical `OR`].
```

> Only events matching these properties, conditions and type will be returned to this subscription. Note that these fields are combined in the resulting filter with a xref:subscriptions/filtering.adoc#filter-logical-and[logical `AND`].

Reviewer: This is a bit weird, because 2 lines above it says things are combined with a logical OR - sounds like a bit of a contradiction.

Author: they are different things. For example:
```graphql
where: {
  # combined with OR
  directors: {},
  actors: {
    node: {
       # combined with AND
       name: "Keanu",
       age: 30
    }
  }
}
```
That's why I felt the need to include this detail but I agree it might be a bit confusing so please feel free to suggest a better way of explaining this..

Reviewer: How about something like:

```
The relationship-related filtering logic is even more powerful, as filters can also express the expected relationship field, or the expected concrete type at the other end of the relationship when having relationships to Abstract Types. Note that each relationship field specified is combined with the others using a xref:subscriptions/filtering.adoc#filter-logical-or[logical `OR`]. Only events matching these relationship field names will be returned in the Subscription.

You can further filter each relationship field by node and relationship properties. As per usual, these fields are combined in the resulting filter with a xref:subscriptions/filtering.adoc#filter-logical-and[logical `AND`].
```

Sounds like more of a follow on rather than a completely different topic.

Considering the following type definitions:
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----

> type Movie {
>     title: String
>     genre: String
>     actors: [Actor!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", properties: "ActedIn", direction: IN)
> }
> interface ActedIn @relationshipProperties {
>     screenTime: Int!
> }
> type Actor {
>     name: String
> }

Reviewer: Good idea to introduce spacing to make code examples more readable.

```suggestion
type Movie {
    title: String
    genre: String
    actors: [Actor!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", properties: "ActedIn", direction: IN)
}

interface ActedIn @relationshipProperties {
    screenTime: Int!
}

type Actor {
    name: String
}
```

----

The format of the `where` argument is:
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
{
    movie: {
        # top-level properties of the node targeted for the subscription operation, supports operators

>         title_IN: []

Reviewer: Empty argument is a bit confusing?

    },
    createdRelationship: {
        actors: { # field name corresponding to a relationship in the type definition of the node targeted for the subscription operation
            edge: {
                 # properties of the relationship, supports operators
                screenTime_GT: 10,
            },
            node: {
                # top-level properties of the node on the other end of the relationship, supports operators

>                 name_STARTS_WITH: ""

Reviewer: Also confusing here.

            }
        }
    }
}
----

Below are some example of how filtering can be applied when creating a subscription to relationship events.

=== Create Relationship
The following example filters the subscriptions to newly created relationships that are connecting a `Movie` from genres other than "Drama", to an `Actor` with a screen time bigger than 10:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----

> movieRelationshipCreated(where: { movie: { genre_NOT: "Drama" }, createdRelationship: { actors: { edge: { screenTime_GT: 10 } } } }) {
>     movie {
>         title
>     }
>     createdRelationship {
>         actors { 
>             screenTime
>             node { 
>                 name
>             }
>         }
>     }
> }

Reviewer: All of the query examples on this page are not actually valid because they're missing the `subscription` wrapper - this will need applying to all and reformatting.

```suggestion
subscription {
movieRelationshipCreated(where: { movie: { genre_NOT: "Drama" }, createdRelationship: { actors: { edge: { screenTime_GT: 10 } } } }) {
    movie {
        title
    }
    createdRelationship {
        actors { 
            screenTime
            node { 
                name
            }
        }
    }
}
}
```

----

> NOTE: `Where` will only filter by properties set at the moment of creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: `where` will only filter by properties set at the moment of creation.
```

=== Delete Relationship
The following example filters the subscriptions to deleted relationships that were connecting a `Movie` of genre Comedy or Adventure to an `Actor` named "Jim Carrey":

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
movieRelationshipDeleted(where: { movie: { genre_IN: ["Comedy", "Adventure"] }, createdRelationship: { actors: { node: { name: "Jim Carrey" } } } }) {
    movie {
        title
    }
    deletedRelationship {
        actors { 
            screenTime
            node { 
                name
            }
        }
    }
}
----

> NOTE: `Where` will only filter by existing properties right before deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: `where` will only filter by existing properties right before deletion.
```

=== Relationship-related filters

> So far we've seen how to filter the subscription events by using operations on nodes or relationship properties. The relationship-related filtering logic is even more powerful, as filters can also express the expected relationship field, or the expected concrete type at the other end of the relationship when having relationships to Abastract Types.

Reviewer: I believe it is part of Neo4j's documentation style guide not to use "we" or "us", generally preferring the third person.

```suggestion
In addition to filtering on node or relationship properties, the relationship-related filtering logic is even more powerful, as filters can also express the expected relationship field, or the expected concrete type at the other end of the relationship when having relationships to Abstract Types.
```

> The following examples are valid for both `CREATE_RELATIONSHIP`/ `DELETE_RELATIONSHIP` events. Their purpose is to illustrate the various ways in which a subscription to a relationship event can be filtered to suit needs of various specificity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples are valid for both `CREATE_RELATIONSHIP`/`DELETE_RELATIONSHIP` events. Their purpose is to illustrate the various ways in which a subscription to a relationship event can be filtered in a variety of ways.
```

Considering the following type definitions:
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----

> type Movie {
>     title: String
>     genre: String
>     actors: [Actor!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", properties: "ActedIn", direction: IN)
>     directors: [Director!]! @relationship(type: "DIRECTED", properties: "Directed", direction: IN)
>     reviewers: [Reviewer!]! @relationship(type: "REVIEWED", properties: "Review", direction: IN)
> }
> interface ActedIn @relationshipProperties {
>     screenTime: Int!
> }
> type Actor {
>     name: String
> }
> type Person implements Reviewer {
>     name: String
>     reputation: Int
> }
> union Director = Person | Actor
> interface Directed @relationshipProperties {
>     year: Int!
> }
> interface Reviewer {
>     reputation: Int!
> }
> type Magazine implements Reviewer {
>     title: String
>     reputation: Int!
> }
> interface Review {
>     score: Int!
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type Movie {
    title: String
    genre: String
    actors: [Actor!]! @relationship(type: "ACTED_IN", properties: "ActedIn", direction: IN)
    directors: [Director!]! @relationship(type: "DIRECTED", properties: "Directed", direction: IN)
    reviewers: [Reviewer!]! @relationship(type: "REVIEWED", properties: "Review", direction: IN)
}

interface ActedIn @relationshipProperties {
    screenTime: Int!
}

type Actor {
    name: String
}

type Person implements Reviewer {
    name: String
    reputation: Int
}

union Director = Person | Actor

interface Directed @relationshipProperties {
    year: Int!
}

interface Reviewer {
    reputation: Int!
}

type Magazine implements Reviewer {
    title: String
    reputation: Int!
}

interface Review {
    score: Int!
}
```

----

And the base subscription operation:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----

> movieRelationshipDeleted(where: {}) {
>     movie {
>         title
>     }
>     deletedRelationship {
>         actors { 
>             screenTime
>             node { 
>                 name
>             }
>         }
>         directors {
>             year
>             node {
>                 ... on PersonEventPayload { # generated type
>                     name
>                     reputation
>                 }
>                 ... on ActorEventPayload { # generated type
>                     name
>                 }
>             }
>         }
>         reviewers {
>             score
>             node {
>                 reputation
>                 ... on MagazineEventPayload { # generated type
>                     title
>                     reputation
>                 }
>                 ... on PersonEventPayload { # generated type
>                     name
>                     reputation
>                 }
>             }
>         }
>     }
> }

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the specific `Where` typename here, but I think this example works best if you say - "given the following subscription, you can use the following `where` inputs in the GraphQL variable values to get different results" - the current way that random JSON is used in the below examples is a little confusing.

You'll also need to indent the whole query over a bit.

```suggestion
subscription MovieRelationshipDeleted($where: MovieRelationshipDeletedWhere) {
movieRelationshipDeleted(where: {}) {
    movie {
        title
    }
    deletedRelationship {
        actors { 
            screenTime
            node { 
                name
            }
        }
        directors {
            year
            node {
                ... on PersonEventPayload { # generated type
                    name
                    reputation
                }
                ... on ActorEventPayload { # generated type
                    name
                }
            }
        }
        reviewers {
            score
            node {
                reputation
                ... on MagazineEventPayload { # generated type
                    title
                    reputation
                }
                ... on PersonEventPayload { # generated type
                    name
                    reputation
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
}
```

----

The following examples play around with the value of the `where` argument in order to achieve different results.

> === Filtering via implicit/ explicit declaration 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Filtering via implicit/explicit declaration 
```

            }
        } 
    }
}
----

Or we could also be interested in the relationship itself conforming to some filters, like the `Actor` to have spent no more than 40 minutes in the `Movie`:
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
{
    deletedRelationship: {
        actors: {
            edge: { # use operations to specify filers on the top-level properties of the relationship
                screenTime_LT: 40, 
            }
            node: { 
                name: "Alvin"
            }
        } 
    }
}
----

Multiple relationship types can be included in the returned subscriptions by explicitly specifying the corresponding field names like so:
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
{
    deletedRelationship: {
        actors: {}, # include all relationships corresponding of type `ACTED_IN` 
        directors: {} # include all relationships corresponding of type `DIRECTED` 
        # exclude relationships of type `REVIEWED`
    }
}
----

In case we are interested in all relationship types, we can either express this implicitly by not specifying any:
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
{
    deletedRelationship: {} # include all relationships of all types
}
----

> or explicitly by specifying the field names of all the relationships connected to the type targeted for the subscription:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or explicitly by specifying the field names of all the relationships connected to the type targeted for the subscription:
```

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
{
    deletedRelationship: {
        directors: {}, # include all relationships of type `DIRECTED`
    }
}
----

Following the same logic as for the relationship field names, when nothing is explicitly provided then all is accepted. Thus relationships of type `DIRECTED` between a `Movie` and any of the Concrete types that make up the Union type `Director` will be returned to the subscription.
It is therefore equivalent to the following:
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
{
    deletedRelationship: {
        directors: { # include all relationships of type `DIRECTED`
            Actor: {},
            Person: {}
        }
    }
}
----

Of course, it follows that explicitly specifying a Concrete type will exclude the other from the returned events:
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
{
    deletedRelationship: {
        directors: { 
            Actor: {} # include all relationships of type `DIRECTED` to an `Actor` type 
        }
    }
}
----

In this case, only relationships of type `DIRECTED` between a `Movie` and an `Actor` will be returned to the subscription, those between a `Movie` and a `Person` being filtered out.

> One reason why we might do this is to include some filters on the `Actor` type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One reason why this might be done is to include some filters on the `Actor` type:
```

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
{
    deletedRelationship: {
        reviewers: { # relationship to an interface type
            edge: {
                # relationship properties of a relationship of type `REVIEWED`
                score_GT: 7
            },
            node: {
                # common fields declared by the interface
                reputation_GTE: 8 
                _on: { # specific fields depending on the concrete type
                    Person: { # concrete type that makes up the interface type
                        name: "Jane Doe",
                        reputation_GTE: 7
                    },
                    Magazine: { # concrete type that makes up the interface type
                        title_IN: ["Sight and Sound", "Total Film"],
                        reputation_LT: 9
                    }
                }
            }
        }, 
    }
}
----

The above will return events for relationships between the type `Movie` and `Reviewer`, where the score is greater than 7 and the `Reviewer` is a Person named "Jane Doe" with a reputation greater or equal to 7, or the `Reviewer` is a Magazine with the reputation of 8.

> NOTE: Notice how the reputation field is part of the Interface type, and can thus be specified in 3 ways: inside the `node` key, inside each Concrete type, or in both places. When specified in both places, the filter is composed with a logic `AND`: type `Person` overrides the `reputation_GTE` operator so the final filter is `reputation_GTE: 7`, while type `Magazine` composes the original operator so the final filter is the interval `reputation_GTE: 8 && reputation_LT: 9`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Notice how the reputation field is part of the Interface type, and can thus be specified in 3 ways: inside the `node` key, inside each Concrete type, or in both places. When specified in both places, the filter is composed with a logical `AND`. Type `Person` overrides the `reputation_GTE` operator so the final filter is `reputation_GTE: 7`, while type `Magazine` composes the original operator so the final filter is the interval `reputation_GTE: 8 && reputation_LT: 9`.
```
